 ---
layout: post
title: "A new perspective on a poor grade. Reclaim confidence."
---

Getting an assignment or exam grade back that you are not too happy with the grade is a bit of a shot to the chest (well, for me, it was). My inner high achiever hates when it happens, and it did just recently with a subject’s final assignment.

However, there is a lesson in getting a bad grade. Perhaps I didn’t understand the content; maybe Ineeded some more guidance or an alternative learning platform or a different teacher/tutor to explain where I may have gone wrong. So I try not to be too hard on myself.
 
Here are my tips and follow-up actions I take to move to pass a bad grade positively.

## 1. If the feedback is not detailed or clear, seek more clarification

A low assignment grade is one thing, but if the lecturer or tutor does not give me a clear and detailed description of why I have gotten a low mark, this is an opportunity to learn from my mistakes and get additional feedback. I have been making progress listening to The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss. In chapter 12, he discusses that if he didn’t get an A for the first assignment or exam for a course, then he would follow up with a 2-3 hour meeting with the teacher to ensure he left the office feeling confident in the learning material. He also said that it will make the teacher rethink ever giving him a low grade again. This I am not sold on. Personally, I rather get a low grade and know that I did bad rather than have them give me a good for the sake of me pestering them. I do, however, love the persistence and devotion that Tim is referring to.

Re-reading over the comments from my assignment, some didn’t make sense to me, to the point where I went to every lecture and tute and felt like that comments didn’t reflect the learning material. I also, at this point, hadn’t completed the first subject due to the structure of when the subjects were held. Or perhaps the comment was too vague for me to understand what they were referring to. This was my time to shine in asking for additional clarification. Remember, we are students who are learning and paying to get taught, so if we want to make every cent count for the courses we pay for, then it is only fair to get more clarification if we are unsure. There are teachers, after all.

In addition, I aim not to feel embarrassed when I feel like I’m asking a silly question; as I’ve been told before by teachers, no question is silly. Own that silliness!

Also, don’t be afraid to challenge the marker; this was another action I took when getting feedback regarding my assignment. The lecturers/tutors are humans too and can make mistakes in missing content or have an opinion that you disagree with.

## 2. Do the work before seeking feedback

Once upon a time, when I was a grad engineer, I tended to go to my senior and say, “I don’t know what to do, can you help me” way before I did some self-learning myself. My senior turned me away at one point and told me I needed to stop approaching him like this (in a polite way). As I expanded my learning, got promoted, and started helping grads with their learning, I realised where my senior was coming from and tried to pass this on to those grads. 

Instead of saying, “I don’t know what to do, can you help?” I now say, “Hey, I have looked up X, and it said to approach this problem like X. I believe this (methodology/solution/etc) is right/wrong for this reason. Can you confirm I’m on the right track/have the correct answer/am thinking the right way?”.

It shows my teacher that I have taken responsibility for my learning and have come up with my own conclusion to a problem. Plus, it’s a curacy thing to acknowledge my teacher’s time is important and that I show a level of respect for the exchange of seeking guidance/knowledge from them.

## 3. See this as a learning opportunity and one to remember for later

As mentioned previously, bad grades are hard to swallow, but I try to see them as a blip on the radar when it comes to learning; I believe this is how I address the low grade, as they may come up down the track.
 
I keep a record of my teacher’s feedback, what I did with this new information (for example, I needed to go and understand non-parametric hypothesis testing in more detail) and did I walk away from it understanding the content better or I now know where I went wrong.

Keeping a record may seem extreme, but I like to think of it as prepping for future situations where perhaps a job interview asks about the grade, and I have to explain myself regarding it. I personally think it seems more professional to explain, “well, yes, I didn’t do so well with subject X, however, I took process X to better myself once I got some feedback on where I may have gone wrong”, rather than “oh yeah I didn’t do so well with that subject…..”.

## Take Away

At the end of the day, we are only human and will make mistakes, but how we handle a situation will improve us in the long term. Remember, having one bad grade does not mean we have failed the entire course/degree, and it does not mean we have messed up your entire career! After I followed this process and asked for a reassessment, I got a grade increase of 9.3 marks. A small win there!

Kel X
