---
layout: post
title: "A new perspective on being devoted to achieving goals."
---
Planning my life is essential to achieving maximum results for work, uni, coding, blog etc. It’s finding the balance or staying on top of everything without burnout. During the last 6 months of being a fulltime employee / part-time uni student, I have learnt what works best for me and what doesn’t, so here are my five tips on staying productive and crushing my goals.

## 1. Get familiar with what works best for you and when

Everyone has a preference for when to do things, and if not, it’s a bit of trial and error. I believe that when I found what time of the day was best suited to certain tasks or activities, then I believed that I found more motivation. You can watch Instagram reels or TikTok all you want, seeing the girls who wake up at 4 am to go to the gym and thinking you’re going to take on their routine tomorrow. However, if you know that you get most done in the afternoon after a bit of a sleep-in, then you need to listen to your body and your desires.

I’m a morning person, but I don’t wake up before the sun rises. I know that I love the 7 am bike class on a work-from-home day; however, if I’m at work, then ill do the early afternoon class to wash away the day. I like to do the harder, more complex work/uni tasks in the morning as I feel more motivated, especially after a coffee. I also love that time of the day because I feel like I’m at my happiness. If I’m doing uni at night, it can’t be anything that requests too much brain power; this is when I do aesthetic or simple kinda tasks like doing word checks with Grammarly for my assignments, making visualisations, making a reference list, doing to-do list or anything in canvas. Coding, researching and writing blog posts are out of the question at this time. I also don’t want to be doing too much because this is usually the day my partner and I get to hang out and chill after a big day! So I know I need to get the in-depth work done during the day, so I’m not taking this into the night.

At this point in my life, I know what works for me (well, at this current season of my life), and I try not to copy anyone else’s routine because I know it will jeopardise my productivity.

## 2. If you feel overwhelmed or booked out, then reschedule

Trying to be a superhero when you have an assignment due, dinner dates with friends, appointments, and a busy at work all in the same week is not fun. I have done this a couple of times, and it’s always a hell of a week for me, so now I have come to accept that if sh*t is about to hit the fan, I move appointments and/or catch-ups as much as I can to avoid stressing out.

## 3. Write down when you are going to have ‘you-time’

All work, no play, or no play in sight, is extremely unmotivating. I’m a person who needs to look forward to something, that when I finish work, I get to go do something I love for a bit, whether it’s hanging with my partner, taking the dog for a walk with him, chilling and watching my current obsession tv shows like House of the Dragon or Yellowstone, or doing my blog. I also feel less guilty when I have a big productive day rather than working at 50% and feeling like I don’t deserve the rest.

When permitting myself to have a break during studying, I use a Pomodoro timer in Notion. This allows you to smash out short study periods with some break periods. I found it super helpful, and it also makes sure I get a chance to get some walking in during the day. Plus, it’s FREE!

## 4. Find a planner that works for you

It may sound simple, but I have spent a fair amount on planners only never to use them. I needed to ask myself what will I actually use or what do I think I would use. For me, book planners are a no go, I have no idea why but I never reach for them, and I think I find them overwhelming with the amount of stuff you need to fill out to make it look used, like how many glasses of water did I drink today? I don’t know! I don’t need to write down everyday tasks like “Gym 4:30-5:15” or “Lecture 6-7 pm”; I just know they are on and don’t need to remember them. However, I find myself needing to remember things out of the ordinary, especially if it’s something that is not a part of regular money-spending activities. This is like dentist, acupuncture, sending that Depop order off, and all that jazz. I have been very forgetful since I have a lot of uni, work, and blogging on my mind.

I think I have learnt that I like to see everything in one view and that a general week isn’t too busy, so I don’t need a weekly planner, so a monthly planner is better. I have been using Steph Pase Planners for the last year, and I think, personally for me, it’s everything I need. I can see what the next month will bring, it’s all in one view, with enough room to write those odd tasks or appointments that I have, and I can add fun planning stickers to it. The other tool that I use to brain dump items and add indepth tasks and notes is Notion. I find Notion a game changer because you can set up pages how you want them to look, you can add cover images, and it has all these amazing add-in features like links to websites, links to other notion pages, add in GitHub account, add in music, add in code for uni notes and more!

I bought a school template from Gridfiti to fill out all my uni work assignments / lectures / teacher contact information, and it even has a grade calculator. It also has beautiful anime / Japanese images and style, which I love.

https://shop.gridfiti.com/products/notion-student-os-template?utm_medium=organic&utm_source=blog&utm_campaign=sidebar 

This is where I also do all my blog organisational activities and where I write my posts, keep all my ideas, the to-do list for it and more. Even better, Notion is good for the environment with the use of paper, and it’s mobile-friendly too, so I always have it on my phone, and it is downloadable onto your computer.

## 5. Don’t be a perfectionist

Priofectism and productivity do not go hand in hand somethings. When I am focused on the little details that only I can see and think will be the end of the world if I don’t get it right, I miss the bigger picture and the end goal. I just remind myself that life is a journey, we are humans, and we can make mistakes, heck I learn so much more when I make a mistake compared to trying to be perfect and never getting anything done. My brain then knows the other side of the scale, the “oh dear, I missed that up, I’ll know next time”, and rules out that thing that didn’t work. For one of my assignments, I couldn’t get a group_by() %>% summarise() code to work; I didn’t well on it for too long; I said to myself, “ok if I have room and time at the end of my assignment I’ll come back and see if I can fix it, if not all good”. Once I got to pretty much finishing my assignment, I felt like if I could solve this issue, it would be the cherry on an already-made cake. I eventually found out how to resolve the issue and was able to add it to my assignment (by adding dplyr:: to the beginning). I knew that if I dwelled on it for too long, I wouldn’t have gotten much of my assignment done that day, I would have felt disappointed, unmotivated, and the feeling I couldn’t do this (pretty dramatic but my brain can go south real quick). Instead, I focused on “ok, what can I do that I know won’t be an issue” and got those sections of the assignment done, which helped me stay productive instead of trying to get it to work perfectly.

As we Aussies say, “she’ll be right”.

I hope this was helpful for you and that you got something out of it!

Kel x

